---
layout: post
title: Sparks
---

Move towards whatever sparks your interest.

Notice when something sparks a little interest in you. Actually it happens all 
the time, but we ignore most sparks. No time. Not in my wheelhouse. Not 
realistic. 

I read about some parents who are "no-schooling" their kids.

Rather than send them to school or homeschool them, they are letting them 
simply play and try out whatever they're interested in. The kids are very 
young, but already learning far more than I ever did at that age.

Reading about this really sparked my interest. I thought to myself "Wow, I wish 
I had this opportunity as a child." Well, I may be 27 now, but I decided to 
create that environment for myself.

Yesterday I ordered a beginner kit for learning and playing with circuit 
boards. I did it because I've always been interested in how electrical devices 
work, but I never took it seriously because I'm not an electrical engineer.

I think that was a mistake, but it's not too late to catch up. 

The point isn't that I'm going to become an electrical engineer now. That's a 
massive undertaking. The point is just to give that spark of interest a little 
fuel. 

If we do things that excite us, we will do them with passion. If we do things 
with passion, we will probably do them well. And a life lived passionately must 
be one of the greatest goals we can aspire to. 

Most people don't know what they really want to do. The best way to find it is 
to follow those sparks, and you will find that some transform into a roaring 
fire of purpose.
